0.89 changelog (#37736)
microsoft/PowerToys: README.md

Our [prioritized roadmap][roadmap] of features and utilities that the core team is focusing on.

### 0.89 - February 2025 Update

In this release, we focused on new features, stability, accessibility and automation.

**✨Highlights**

>  - Enhanced Advanced Paste by adding media transcoding support!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Enhanced Advanced Paste by adding media transcoding support to convert different video and audio file formats!
```

 - Fixed crashes when loading thumbnails after the .NET 9 update and resolved PowerLauncher.exe blocking other MSI installers from creating shortcuts!
 - Fixed accessibility issues across FancyZones, Image Resizer, and Settings to improve screen reader support and clarity!
 - Enhanced UI automation framework across modules and added new tests to cover manual checks, with more improvements coming!

### General

 - Fixed an issue where updating PowerToys on Windows 11 did not properly update context menu entries, impacting New+, PowerRename, Image Resizer, and File Locksmith.
 - Updated .NET Packages from 9.0.1 to 9.0.2. Thanks [@snickler](https://github.com/snickler) for this.
 - Enabled compatibility with VS17.3 and later, for C++23. Thanks [@LNKLEO](https://github.com/LNKLEO) for this.

### Advanced Paste

>  - Enhanced Advanced Paste by adding media transcoding support, improving UI layouts, refining clipboard handling, and integrating Semantic Kernel for smarter pasting. Thanks for our team and [@snickler](https://github.com/snickler)!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - Enhanced Advanced Paste by adding media transcoding support, improving UI layouts, refining clipboard handling, and integrating Semantic Kernel for smarter pasting. Thanks [@snickler](https://github.com/snickler) for your help!
```

### FancyZones

 - Fixed accessibility by improving the text for monitors, ensuring clearer naming and help text for screen readers.

### Image Resizer
 - Fixed issues with Width and Height fields in Image Resizer's Custom preset, ensuring empty values no longer cause errors, settings save correctly, and auto-scaling behaves as expected. Thanks [@daverayment](https://github.com/daverayment)!
 - Fixed accessibility by ensuring screen readers announce selected image dimensions in the combo-box for better navigation.

### Monaco Preview

>  - Fixed open link in default browser rather than edge. Thanks [@OldUser101](https://github.com/OldUser101)!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - Fixed open link in default browser rather than Edge. Thanks [@OldUser101](https://github.com/OldUser101)!
```

Reviewer: @cinnamon-msft, i adjusted to "Microsoft Edge" vs just Edge

### Mouse Highlighter

 - Fixed a highlight released on an Administrator window will start fading, instead of staying on the screen indefinitely until the mouse button is pressed again on an unelevated window.

### Mouse Without Borders
 - Fixed an issue in service mode where copy-paste and drag-drop file transfers didn’t work, ensuring seamless file operations.
 - Enabled GPO for enable/disable for Mouse Without Borders in Service Mode. Thanks [@htcfreek](https://github.com/htcfreek) for review and comments!

>  - Fixed code maintainability by refactoring the oversized 'Common' class in Mouse Without Borders into smaller, focused classes for better structure and clarity. Thanks [@mikeclayton](https://github.com/mikeclayton)! and Thanks [@htcfreek](https://github.com/htcfreek) for review!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - Fixed code maintainability by refactoring the oversized 'Common' class in Mouse Without Borders into smaller, focused classes for better structure and clarity. Thanks [@mikeclayton](https://github.com/mikeclayton) and thanks [@htcfreek](https://github.com/htcfreek) for review!
```

Author: Updated all related one as well.

### PowerRename
 - Supported negative value as Start value in regular expression, e.g. ${start=-1314}

>  - Fixed PowerRename RegEx cheatsheet by adding $, ^, quantifiers, and common patterns for better usability. Thanks [@PesBandi](https://github.com/PesBandi)! and Thanks [@htcfreek](https://github.com/htcfreek) for review.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - Fixed PowerRename RegEx cheatsheet by adding $, ^, quantifiers, and common patterns for better usability. Thanks [@PesBandi](https://github.com/PesBandi) and thanks [@htcfreek](https://github.com/htcfreek) for review.
```

### PowerToys Run
 - Fixed crashes when loading thumbnails after the .NET 9 update by disabling CETCompat.
 - Fixed PowerLauncher.exe blocking other MSI installers creating shortcuts. Thanks [@OneBlue](https://github.com/OneBlue)!
 - Fixed Run’s dark mode detection to work reliably, preventing issues with incorrect theme detection and ensuring a smoother user experience. Thanks [@daverayment](https://github.com/daverayment)!

>  - Fixed list separator handling in Calculator, allowing functions with multiple arguments to work correctly across different locales. For example pow(2;3) would be replaced with pow(2,3). Thanks [@PesBandi](https://github.com/PesBandi)! and Thanks [@htcfreek](https://github.com/htcfreek) for review!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - Fixed list separator handling in Calculator, allowing functions with multiple arguments to work correctly across different locales. For example pow(2;3) would be replaced with pow(2,3). Thanks [@PesBandi](https://github.com/PesBandi) and thanks [@htcfreek](https://github.com/htcfreek) for review!
```

 - Fixed angle unit conversions in the PowerToys Run calculator, allowing quick conversions between radians, degrees, and gradians.Thanks [@OldUser101](https://github.com/OldUser101)!

### Quick Accent

>  - Added the ǎ, ǒ and ǔ character to the IPA character set. Thanks [@PesBandi](https://github.com/PesBandi)!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - Added the ǎ, ǒ and ǔ characters to the IPA character set. Thanks [@PesBandi](https://github.com/PesBandi)!
```

Author: I tried to aligned 3 sentence to be similar, instead of like first one add "characters" but next two line doesn't mention "character" at all.

Added ǎ, ǒ and ǔ to the IPA character set. Thanks [@PesBandi](https://github.com/PesBandi)!
Added ` (backtick) and ~ (tilde) to the VK_OEM_5 character set. Thanks [@xanatos](https://github.com/xanatos)!
Added ς (final sigma) to the Greek character set. Thanks [@IamSmeagol](https://github.com/IamSmeagol)!

 - Added ` (backtick) and ~ (tilde) to the VK_OEM_5 character set. Thanks [@xanatos](https://github.com/xanatos)!
 - Added final sigma ( ς ) to the Greek character set. Thanks [@IamSmeagol](https://github.com/IamSmeagol)

### Settings

>  - Enabled GPO to control user able to change "run at startup" setting or not. Thanks [@htcfreek](https://github.com/htcfreek) for review and comments!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - Enabled GPO for the "run at startup" setting. Thanks [@htcfreek](https://github.com/htcfreek) for review and comments!
```

 - Fixed accessibility issue by allowing screen readers to announce the group name for secondary links in Settings pages, instead of reading link descriptions without context.
 - Fixed an issue where the Color Picker shortcut was not displaying correctly in the Dashboard.

> ### Workspaces

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Author: I think you mean an "emtpy line" right after ### Workspaces? Instead of adding a "-" in front?

Reviewer 2: This looks good! :)

 - Fixed if a window was last placed on a disconnected monitor, it launches minimized and repositions within the main monitor's visible area when restored, instead of remaining off-screen and invisible.
 - Fixed Workspaces on ARM64 to correctly display icons for packaged apps by resolving path mismatches.

### ZoomIt

 - Fixed warning C4706 and related error C2220 during build. Thanks [@xanatos](https://github.com/xanatos)!

### Documentation

> - Fixed runner-ipc.md doc on the broken link. Thanks [@daverayment](https://github.com/daverayment)!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - Fixed runner-ipc.md doc on the broken link. Thanks [@daverayment](https://github.com/daverayment)!
```

>  - Fixed the new plugin checklist by updating the target framework, removing duplicates, and improving statement organization. Thanks [@hlaueriksson](https://github.com/hlaueriksson)!

Reviewer 3: Nit: The `-`  have different indentations here.

Author: I already try to checked all yestersday... still missing this one...

 - Updated runner documentation to align with the latest code structure.

### Development

 - Stabilized pipeline on ARM64 and forked build.
 - Added fuzz testing for HostUILib, added as part of pipeline for OneFuzz.
 - Fixed and improved UI-Test automation framework, and added new test cases for the FancyZones and Hosts module.
 - Optimized Logger function as AOT compatible, improving performance by 18%.
 - Made Common.UI and Setting.UI to be AOT compatible.
 
 ### What is being planned for version 0.90

For [v0.90][github-next-release-work], we'll work on the items below:

>  - PowerToys Run v2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - New module: PowerToys Run v2
```

 - New module: File Actions Menu

>  - Stability / bug fixes
>  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Working on installer upgrades
 - Upgrading keyboard manager's editor UI
 - Stability / bug fixes
```
